---
slug: 'why-blog'
date: 2023-06-19
title: 'Why blog?'
description: "Why blog? What's the point? How's it different from Twitter? My blog is my digital garden. It's where I can stop, ponder, and articulate thoughts."
tags: ['beginnings']
---

Good question.

In the day and age of Twitter, TikTok, and Instagram, blogs are rapidly becoming a relic of the past. Reminders of an era of the internet without centralization, without norms, where outsiders gathered and explored the unknown virtual world.

In today's world, blogs don't have a strong following. They certainly aren't in the zeitgeist. But they have a purpose. At least to some.

Why one should blog is an [often](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23067352) [discussed](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=30965485) [topic](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31653748) on the [forums](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32137336) I visit. I tend to agree with the general sentiment of those comment sections: that blogging is good. It's good for yourself and can some times (few and far between) lead to good extrinsic outcomes. What people _don't_ say is blogging for profit or for people aside from yourself is a good idea. And I would tend to agree.

Blogging for yourself has a variety of benefits (that I, conceptually, agree with):

1. Creating reference materials for future you
2. Improves your writing—which I have found to be invaluable in my professional career and personal life, even though I'm an "engineer"
3. Forces you to think, reason, and articulate your thoughts. You can't write a blog post about AI, a book, or a movie without synthesizing and understanding your own thoughts.

One of the core reasons I want to blog, and blog regularly, is stated very eloquently by Paul Graham in his essay—ironically titled—the [The Need to Read](http://paulgraham.com/read.html).

> A good writer doesn't just think, and then write down what he thought, as a sort of transcript. A good writer will almost always discover new things in the process of writing.

For me, the answer to "why blog?" is that I want to be forced to think, to summarize my opinions, to articulate my thoughts, and I want to _explore_.

---

Today I reboot my blog. I plan to write frequently, to improve, to learn, to _think_. I hold the right to go back and edit my posts as writing is a process of learning.
